README.md, before:

# Git Scripts

User scripts for easily managing feature branches and hotfixes.

## Branching Model

This is loosely based on the [Git Flow][gitflow] branching model, with a couple
of noteable changes. Essentially Git Flow's `develop` is our `master`, Git
Flow's `master` is our `stable`, and there are no `release` branches and our
`hotfix` branch names all have a prefix.

**master** is the active development branch, and what cominor.com has checked
out.

**stable** is the branch which is deployed on the production machines. You
should always be able to check out this branch and get "bug-free" code.  This
branch is always ready-to-go and should always be deployed as soon as it's
changed

**feature branches** are named after the feature you're developing and branched
from `master`. When finished, the feature branch is merged back into master
with `--no-ff` (so we preserve the merge commit) and deleted.

**hotfix branches** are named `hotfix_name` and branched from `stable`. When
finished, the hotfix branch is merged back into `stable` with `--no-ff` so we
preserve the merge commit. We attempt to merge it back into `master` as well,
but if it's going to get messy just bail.

## Deployment

The production machines always run off the `stable` branch. When we deploy,
the deploy scripts should:

* Merge `stable` into `master`. This ensures that the two code paths come
together relatively frequently. This also guarantees that we'll pick up any
stray hotfixes that didn't get merged back.

* Create a tag on `stable`. Use the deploy number? Date? Both?

* Update everything on the production machines.

* Create a new directory for the release tag and copy code into it.

* Some kind of Apache/haproxy flag that allows us to change the doc root for
the office IP? Essentially the world would see the old code while we see the
new code. How would this work with migrations?
  + [Flickr], [Disqus] and [Etsy] use *feature flippers*, which allow them to
    deploy code "in the dark" and turn it off and on at will with a control
    panel.  I (James) am not sold on this idea, but it's an interesting one.

[Flickr]: http://code.flickr.com/blog/2009/12/02/flipping-out/
[Disqus]: http://blog.disqus.com/post/789540337/partial-deployment-with-feature-switches
[Etsy]: http://codeascraft.etsy.com/2011/02/04/how-does-etsy-manage-development-and-operations/

* When we're ready to flip the switch to the new code, swap the symlink to the
new tag directory. The doc root of the site should be the symlink for this to
work properly.

## feature script

    feature <command> [branch name]

Automates some of the git commands for dealing with feature branches.

    feature help

Shows how to use the script.

    feature start my-awesome-thing

If the branch `my-awesome-thing` does not exist, a new feature branch
from `master` will be cerated after a confirmation, and runs a
`git checkout my-awesome-thing` to drop you on the new branch.

    feature switch your-neato-thing

Assuming the branch `your-neato-thing` exists, it switches your current
checkout to that feature branch.

*James' ticket script (which has some similarities) [stashes away] any changes
before switching to a new branch, and [attempts] to pop any changes when
switching back.  Should we do this, too?*

[stashes away]: https://github.com/xiongchiamiov/ticket/blob/master/ticket.py#L130
[attempts]: https://github.com/xiongchiamiov/ticket/blob/master/ticket.py#L108

    feature finish your-neato-thing

Merges the feature branch back in to `master`, specifically ensure it's a
non-fast-forward merge. If no branch name is provided, just bail. If the merge
is successful, delete the branch - you shouldn't ever merge in a feature branch
twice, and we don't need the extra cruft lying around.

## livebug script

    livebug <command> [branch name]

Automates the process of fixing a bug on the live site, similar to the `feature`
script with a few differences.

    livebug help

Shows how to use the script.

    livebug start my-sweet-fix

Makes a new branch from `stable` named `hotfix_my-sweet-fix`. Prepending the
name with `hotfix_` allows easy filtering.

    livebug switch my-other-fix

Switches hotfix branches.

    livebug finish optional-fix-name

Merges the hotfix branch back into `stable` with `--no-ff`. Also does a test
merge back into `master`. If it seems like it will merge cleanly, it does it.
Otherwise bail out. Possibly generate a patchfile and sendmail it to Danny,
James, or I to merge the hotfix back in later.

[gitflow]: http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/

Commit message:

Changes to README.
Add somoe more precise descriptions, genericize some of the language,
remove the bit about auto-managing the stash.

README.md, after:

# Git Scripts

User scripts for easily managing feature branches and hotfixes.

## Branching Model

This is loosely based on the [Git Flow][gitflow] branching model, with a couple
of noteable changes. Essentially Git Flow's `develop` is our `master`, Git
Flow's `master` is our `stable`, and there are no `release` branches and our
`hotfix` branch names all have a prefix.

**master** is the active development branch, and what our development server
has checked out.

**stable** is the branch which is deployed on the production machines. You
should always be able to check out this branch and get "bug-free" production
code.  This branch is always ready-to-go and should always be deployed as soon
as it's changed

**feature branches** are named after the feature you're developing and branched
from `master`. When finished, the feature branch is merged back into master
with `--no-ff` (so we preserve the merge commit) and deleted.

**hotfix branches** are named `hotfix_name` and branched from `stable`. When
finished, the hotfix branch is merged back into `stable` with `--no-ff` so we
preserve the merge commit. We attempt to merge it back into `master` as well,
but if it's going to get messy just bail.

## Deployment

The production machines always run off the `stable` branch. When we deploy,
the deploy scripts should:

* Merge `stable` into `master`. This ensures that the two code paths come
together relatively frequently. This also guarantees that we'll pick up any
stray hotfixes that didn't get merged back.

* Create a tag on `stable`. Use the deploy number? Date? Both?

* Update everything on the production machines.

* Create a new directory for the release tag and copy code into it.

* Some kind of Apache/haproxy flag that allows us to change the doc root for
the office IP? Essentially the world would see the old code while we see the
new code. How would this work with migrations?
  + [Flickr], [Disqus] and [Etsy] use *feature flippers*, which allow them to
    deploy code "in the dark" and turn it off and on at will with a control
    panel.  I (James) am not sold on this idea, but it's an interesting one.

[Flickr]: http://code.flickr.com/blog/2009/12/02/flipping-out/
[Disqus]: http://blog.disqus.com/post/789540337/partial-deployment-with-feature-switches
[Etsy]: http://codeascraft.etsy.com/2011/02/04/how-does-etsy-manage-development-and-operations/

## feature script

    feature <command> [branch name]

Automates some of the git commands for dealing with feature branches. Any
command that is run with missing arguments will just print the help and exit.
Any command that modifies the working dir should warn the user and exit(1) if
the working tree is dirty; automatically managing the stash is frought with
danger.

    feature help

Shows how to use the script.

    feature start my-awesome-thing

If the branch `my-awesome-thing` does not exist, a new feature branch
from `master` will be cerated after a confirmation, and runs a
`git checkout my-awesome-thing` to drop you on the new branch.

    feature switch your-neato-thing

Assuming the branch `your-neato-thing` exists, it checks out that branch and
informs you about any stashes saved on that branch.

    feature finish your-neato-thing

Merges the feature branch back in to `master`, using `--no-ff` to ensure it's a
non-fast-forward merge. If the merge is successful, delete the branch - you
shouldn't ever merge in a feature branch twice, and we don't need the extra
cruft lying around.

## livebug script

    livebug <command> [branch name]

Automates the process of fixing a bug on the live site, similar to the `feature`
script with a few differences.

    livebug help

Shows how to use the script.

    livebug start my-sweet-fix

Makes a new branch from `stable` named `hotfix_my-sweet-fix`. Prepending the
name with `hotfix_` allows easy filtering.

    livebug switch my-other-fix

Switches hotfix branches. Assuming the branch `hotfix_my-other-fix` exists, it
checks out that branch and informs you about any stashes saved on that branch.

    livebug finish my-other-fix

Merges the hotfix branch back into `stable` with `--no-ff`. Also does a test
merge back into `master`. If it seems like it will merge cleanly, it does it.
Otherwise bail out. Possibly sendmail the admins or just inform the user that
they need to merge it inot master and fix the conflicts.

[gitflow]: http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/
